now Marwan bishara is Al jazer senior
political analyst he joins us from Paris
Marwan when you're three days out from
the ICC prosecutor requesting an arrest
warrant for your some of your top
officials when you're the day before the
icj possibly ruling an end to your
operations scenes like this of suffering
in hospitals not the best PR exercise is
it oh you don't know how right you are
it's U it's it's just incredible uh what
the Israelis are doing and are capable
uh of doing but but you see this also
become a habit and I think it's very
difficult to give up this sort of a
habit I think they're sort of addicted
now to the kind of sadism that we've
seen practice in Gaza over the past
eight months especially against
hospitals and schools and women and
children and so on so forth you know
Sammy they say uh truth is the first
victim of War but looking at the past
eight months looking at Israel's war on
Gaza the unra genocide I would say the
first victim of this war has been
morality and the second victim is human
decency never seen human decency uh
disappear the way it has with such
sadism practice against patients and
doctors and nurses in hospitals and last
but not least it is the truth but the
truth here is not tactical what I mean
is Netanyahu can do this as the ICC and
the icj and the world community and the
international human organizations are up
in arms he can do that because he chose
lying and deception as a
strategy he strategizes just listening
to him yesterday talked to an American
Network the man just lies from his nose
I mean he just you know none ending
non-stopping lies and lies about what
goes on and he thinks he can get away
with it Maran as I mentioned it's the
day before the icj might
rule uh on the question of whether to
order an end to the Israeli offensive in
Rafa the ICC prosecutor did say that
there may be further requests coming
from
him how is all of this continuation of
these kinds of scenes likely to play out
in some of these venues next steps
well I tell you I mean uh clearly uh the
Israelis are counting on the Americans
to protect them from whatever might come
out of the ICC and
icj and clearly the Israelis have gone
to the dark side and they really don't
give a damn uh what the icj and ICC says
I think Netanyahu basically has lost it
he doesn't care I think he understands
now that he's uh gone too far and he
just needs to continue there's no way he
can back off so I think he's going to
probably become even more dangerous in
the days months even years to come
because judging from his National
Security advisor sah [__] this might go
on for years in Gaza believe it or not
some Israeli media when you read them
today they seem concerned that the icj
might be about to order an end to the
rough offensive do you think that might
be the case
tomorrow you know it's it's very
possible because because of the scenes
that are unraveling on TV screens
everywhere but uh judging from uh Jake
Sullivan's visit to Israel two things
are evident the Americans are not going
to stop the Israelis from going on Rafa
Israelis are already in Rafa more than
700,000 people have been displaced once
again out of the Rafa vicinity and
clearly the Israelis are adamant and I
hope uh that uh the international Court
will take this seriously and at least at
least take a symbolic gesture of taking
a stand that will simply put an end to
the Bloodshed to the genocide that are
that continues to unravel in front of
our
Liv Maran bishara thanks so
much make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer